# cs-32-final-project
FP Design (updated)

For our final project, we have created an arcade. The main blocks of code include our main menu library, and our main menu, as well as all of our games. Before the user enters the arcade, we wanted to prompt them to enter their username and password. We do this by creating a function in the main menu library called login_user. All user information (username, password, coin balance, rank) is stored in a csv file. The computer will check if the user’s information is already stored in the csv file, however, if they are not a returning user, then the computer will prompt them to create an account and store their information in a new row of the csv file. Additionally, we created a game selection function in the library that will be called in the main menu when the user wants to choose one of three games to play. 
Once the user logs in, the computer will display the main menu which shows the different options for the arcade. The first option is game selection, which if chosen, will print all of the games and ask the user to pick. The other options on the main menu include ‘check coin balance,’ ‘check rank’ and  ‘quit game.’ 
The bulk of our arcade consists of three games. For the hangman game, the computer randomly selects a word from a list of words and prints out a blank version of the word with each letter replaced by an underscore. The user then has to guess the letters that make up the word. If the letter guessed is in the word, it will be revealed in the blank version of the word with the underscore replaced by the correct letter. If the letter is not in the word, the number of guesses will be incremented. If the number of guesses reaches the length of the word, the user will lose, and the correct word will be revealed. If the user guesses all of the letters correctly, they win.
For the tic tac toe game, there are functions to take input from players, display the board, check for a winner, and provide an automated player. It also includes a function to switch between player turns. The user wins when it places three ‘X’s’ in a row on the board. The tennis game has two players, a ball, and a court, and then simulates the movement of the ball and players on the court. The players score points by using the up and down arrow keys to block the ball from passing their slide, and hitting the ball past their opponent. When either player reaches 5 points, they win the game. We used the pygame package in order to code this video game, which made it look more visually appealing. 
At the end of each game, win or lose, the user is prompted to either play again or return to the main menu. If they do not input ‘yes’ or ‘no,’ the computer will tell them and prompt them to answer again. For every game the user wins, they earn 10 points, and for every game they lose they earn one point. Each user’s rank depends on how many coins they have earned:  New users start as ‘Noob,’ followed by ‘intermediate’ (50+ points), ‘expert’ (200+ points) and ‘god’ (500+ points). The rank titles and coin balance are updated automatically and stored in the csv file next to the username and password. The user can always check their rank and coin balance from the main menu. This way, each user’s progress will be saved for the next time they want to play, even if they decide to quit the arcade. We hope you enjoy it!
